Visualizing Co-Transcriptional Folding
--------------------------------------

Researchers often consider the secondary structue of an RNA molecule as static
and fully-formed while giving little thought to the series of pairing and
unpairing events that occur while an RNA is being transcribed. Driven by
energetic, kinetic, and steric constraints nascent transcripts are dynamic
entities that simultaneously populate multiple secondary structure
configurations. Using tools from the Vienna RNA package, we calculate the
population of structures that are present in solution at each step in the
transcription process and calculate their relative expected concentrations.
In this presentation we describe two methods to depict this information in a
meaningful manner that gives researchers a clear picture of how an RNA's
structure evolves as it is elongated.

The first, an animation, focuses on the sequence of pairing - unpairing events
that occur over the course of the transcription process and result in the
predicted minimum free energy structure. This provides an intuitive description
of the folding process of an RNA molecule and aims to illustrate that
large-scale rearrangements of the structure can occur as it is being
transcribed.  The second is a static representation of the different structures
and their relative concentrations at each step of transcription.  It shows how
kinetic considerations can lead to the domination of energetically suboptimal
structures in the population of nascent transcripts. Together, these depictions
aim to not only portray, but to provide insight into the effects of
thermodynamic kinetics in the process of RNA folding during transcription.
